
 
 
 
   
                                                                   ATTENDANCE    POLICY 
                                                                                          
                                                         Document Reference Number – HR-001 
                                                                                          
   
  All  Rights Reserved. This document is a property of Ideassion Technology Solutions. No part of this document 
  may be copied or  reproduced in any form  or by  any means, electronic, mechanical or otherwise  without  the 
  prior written  permission of Ideassion Technology  Solutions. 
   
                                                                                                                                                  

       Document ID                    Owner               Approved  by, Date         Last Modified                 Total Pages 

    HR – Attendance 
                                                   HR                         1-Aug-22                                                                2 
            Policy 
 
Modification  History 
 

      Version                    Date                     Primary   Author                                      Description 






                                                                   ATTENDANCE     POLICY 
 
Purpose – To define  work timing  and the purpose of attendance for all employees. 
 
Applicability    – This policy  applies to all employees of Ideassion. 
 
Expectation 
 
Working   Hours 
 
Our business is that of providing Information  Technology services to customers overseas, in different time zones. 
So, we necessarily operate 24x7, all 365 days a year. 
 
The staff in  general shift will   work from  9.30 a.m. to  5.30 p.m. six days a week,  with a lunch-break  of  half-an-
hour.  
 
Employees will operate in shifts. The deployment of human resources on shifts will be decided and communicated 
to you according to the exigencies of work. 
 
Employees working  in  the shifts  will  be informed,  well  in  advance about the schedule of  their shifts.  You  are 
expected to strictly   adhere to the shift  timings  and  a change in  shifts will   be permitted  only  under deserving 
circumstances. In the event of the reliever not coming  and if an employee continues for two  shifts, the employee 
will  be  eligible  for  compensatory off.   The compensatory  off  should  be availed  within  one  month with   prior 
permission.  
 
Employees are expected to  report half-an  hour before  the scheduled time  of  work.  You  are expected to work 
closely with the employee who is manning the previous shift  to ensure smooth transition of work to the next shift. 
Similarly,  while leaving  the shift, you are expected to handover the charge to the reliever. 
 
Work   timings    and   holidays    are   project-dependent   and   will    be   communicated    by   your    immediate 
Superior/Department Head. 
 
The corporate office shall function  in the following   timing:  - 
 
•             Office Timing:    09.30 to 17.30  
•             Lunch Break of 45  minutes shall be provided to all employees between 13:00 to 13.45. 
•             Sunday will  be the weekly off 
 
Attendance  Management 
 
It is your  individual  responsibility  to come to  work when  you are expected to. Emergencies happen. When they 
do, inform your  immediate Superior early so that alternate arrangements can be made rapidly.  
 
Employees are  expected to  strictly  adhere to  the  shift  timings  and the  shifts.  Changes in  shift  schedule are 
permitted only with  prior  approval from the superiors.  
 
In order  to  ensure effective  smooth wage  administration  of  levels of  employees, an  effective  Time  Office  is 
implemented. 
 
All  employees shall mark  their attendance in  the time recording  system maintained at the  Office.   Notification 
from time  to time will  help employees understand as to how the time office  / Leave Management Software to be 
used for   the  fullest   potential   and  satisfaction  of   the  employee  and  the  management  for  effective   leave 
administration. 
 
Employees who are found not swiping in/out  would  be considered as serious misconduct. 
 

