1
 
 
 
   
                                                                          LEAVE   POLICY 
                                                                                          
                                                         Document Reference Number – HR-002 
                                                                                          
   
  All  Rights Reserved. This document is a property of Ideassion Technology Solutions. No part of this document 
  may be copied or  reproduced in any form  or by  any means, electronic, mechanical or otherwise  without  the 
  prior written  permission of Ideassion Technology  Solutions. 
   
                                                                                                                                                  

       Document ID                    Owner               Approved  by, Date         Last Modified                 Total Pages 


  HR  – Leave Policy                  HR                          1-Aug-22                                                               6 

 
Modification  History 
 

      Version                    Date                     Primary   Author                                      Description 

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

2
                                                                           LEAVE   POLICY 
 
Purpose – To provide  leave for employees to meet their personal exigencies and to reenergize themselves. 
 
Applicability    –  This policy   shall define  and state procedures relating  to  leave available  for  all employees  of 
Ideassion.  
 
The leave coverage will consist of, 
• Privilege  Leave (PL)  
• Casual Leave (CL)  
• Sick Leave (SL)  
• Loss of Pay (LOP)  
• Maternity  Leave (ML)  
• Paternity Leave  
• Relocation leave  
• Compensatory Off  
• Bereavement Leave  
 
Leave Calendar  - 01st January - 31st December 
 
                                               Casual Leave (CL)               Sick Leave (SL)                    Privilege Leave (PL) 
  Entitlement                           12 days per annum              12 days per annum              12 days per annum 
  Credit in HR  System           •    1   leave   per   month,    •    1   leave   per   month,    •    1   leave   per   month, 
                                               credited in HR  system on    credited in HR  system on    credited in HR system on 
                                               1st of every month               1st of every month                1st of every month  
                                               • For  all employees 1 CL     • For  all employees 1 SL     • For  all employees 1 PL 
                                               will    be   credited   every    will     be  credited   every     will    be   credited   every 
                                               month  (from  subsequent    month  (from  subsequent    month  (from   subsequent 
                                               month of joining)                  month of  joining)                  month of joining)  
                                               • Joiners after 15th of  the    • Joiners after 15th of  the    • Joiners after 15th of  the 
                                               month will  be eligible  for    month  will  be eligible for     month will   be eligible for 
                                               .5   leave   credit    during    .5    leave   credit   during     .5   leave    credit   during 
                                               subsequent month               subsequent month                subsequent month  
                                               •  If   an  employee  is  on    •   If   an  employee  is  on    •  For employees who are 
                                               leave for 25 days or more    leave for 25 days or more    above 1year of  service as 
                                               in     a    payroll      month    in      a    payroll      month    on  1st December of each 
                                               (CL/SL/PL/LOP            or     (CL/SL/PL/LOP            or     year   PL    balance  after 
                                               combination   of   all),   he    combination   of   all),  he     encashment if any will be 
                                               /she will   not  be  eligible     /she will   not  be  eligible     carry   forwarded   and   1 
                                               for   CL   credit   for    that    for    SL   credit   for   that     day will be credited as PL 
                                               month                                   month                                   in      every     subsequent 
                                               •  Employees  on ML   are    •  Employees on  ML  are    month.  
                                               eligible  for CL  credit           eligible  for SL  credit            •  If   an  employee  is  on 
                                                                                                                                         leave for 25 days or more 
                                                                                                                                         in     a     payroll     month 
                                                                                                                                         (CL/SL/PL/LOP             or 
                                                                                                                                         combination   of   all),   he 
                                                                                                                                         /she will   not  be  eligible 
                                                                                                                                         for   PL    credit   for   that 
                                                                                                                                         month 
  Accumulation                       No      accumulation       is    No      accumulation      is     48   days   including    the 
                                               allowed                                 allowed                                 leave credit of immediate 
                                                                                                                                         previous year 
  Encashment                         •    Encashment    is    not    Encashment      is       not     •        Applicable          for 
                                               allowed                                 allowed                                 employees in all bands.  
                                                                                                                                         •    Auto   encashment  of 
                                                                                                                                         leaves over and above 48 
                                                                                                                                         at  the end of  each  leave 
                                                                                                                                         calendar ie 31 December. 


For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

3
                                                                                                                                         •  This  is  subject  to  Tax 
                                                                                                                                         and  will    be  paid  along 
                                                                                                                                         with  January Salary each 
                                                                                                                                         year 
  On    Separation   –    All      Not       Applicable       on    Not       Applicable        on    Entire  leave to credit  can 
  confirmed employees           Separation                           Separation                            be encashed 
  Accounting                   of     Prefix,  Suffix,   Intervening  weekends &   Public  Holidays  will   not be  treated as 
  Intervening Holidays            Leave 
  Salary    considered    for     •     Last    drawn    Gross    Not  Applicable                     •     Last     drawn    Basic 
  Encashment   Whilst     in    Salary              (excluding                                                  Salary will  be considered 
  service                                 Monthly       Bonus      and                                                 Calculation  as follows:  • 
                                               PBVP)          will           be                                                 Last  Drawn Basic  Salary 
                                               considered Calculation as                                                 /  30  days  x  No.  of   PL 
                                               follows:    •   Last   Drawn                                                  days at credit 
                                               Gross Salary /  30 days * 
                                               No. of CL  days at credit 
  On separation                      Not  Applicable                     Not Applicable                      Last drawn  basic salary / 
  a)   If     employee   gives                                                                                               30 days x no. of  PL days 
  notice and  works for  the                                                                                               at  credit   (including    PL 
  full  notice period                                                                                                            earned for current year on 
  b) If   employee absconds                                                                                              pro rata basis)  
  without    notice   /   gives                                                                                               • Last drawn  basic salary 
  notice and does not work                                                                                               / 30 days x no. of PL days 
  for  the   complete  notice                                                                                               at  credit   (including   PL 
  period                                                                                                                             earned for current year on 
                                                                                                                                         pro    rata    basis)    after 
                                                                                                                                         deducting PL for  waiving 
                                                                                                                                         of notice  period 
  Availing    Leave   During     •  For  emergencies leave    •  For  emergencies leave    •  For  emergencies leave 
  Notice Period                       may  be granted  for  very    may  be granted  for  very    may  be granted  for  very 
                                               short  duration  subject to    short  duration  subject  to    short  duration  subject to 
                                               sanction by HOD                  sanction by HOD                  sanction by HOD  
                                               •  1  Day   CL  per  month    •  1 Day SL per month can   •  If employee avails more 
                                               can   be   availed   during     be availed  during  notice     than 1  day  leave  during 
                                               notice   period    (NP)   &     period  (NP)  &  extension    notice,    he/she  may   be 
                                               extension     of       Notice    of   Notice  period   is  not     asked  to   extend  notice 
                                               period is  not required for     required  for   such  leave    period  for  the leave days 
                                               such leave days. i.e. Any     days.   i.e.    Any    leaves    based on business need. 
                                               leaves beyond  2 days of     beyond 2 days of  SL in a 
                                               CL in  a 60 days of notice    60 days of  notice may be 
                                               may  be asked  to  extend    asked to extend based on 
                                               based on business need /    business need / permitted 
                                               permitted   on  a  case  to    on  a  case to   case basis 
                                               case      basis      without     without   extension of  NP 
                                               extension    of     NP    by     by  respective Functional 
                                               respective       Functional     Heads    based   on     the 
                                               Heads    based   on    the     situation 
                                               situation 
  Minimum   leave  allowed    0.5 Day                                 0.5 Day                                 1 Day 
  at a time  
  Combination   with   other    Can  be   combined  with     Can   be  combined   with     Can  be   combined  with 
  Leave                                   SL, PL                                  CL,  PL                                 CL,  SL 
  Advance       Credit       of    Not  Allowed                         Not Allowed                          Not Allowed 
  Leaves 
 
Loss of Pay (LOP)   Leave 
 
• LOP is also an authorized form  of leave and has to be applied and approved through HR System.  
• LOP can be applied in the absence of non-availability  of  other eligible leave to employee’s credit.  


For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

4
• LOP will   also include intervening holidays  and weekends. 
 
Maternity   Leave (ML)  
 
Maternity Leave is  paid as per the Maternity Benefit Act,  1961. 
 
The Amendments:  
• Maternity  Leave will  be for 26 weeks (182 days).  
• Employee can proceed on ML  8 weeks prior to the expected delivery date as certified by Doctor.  
• Employees  who currently  have two  (surviving)  or  more children  shall be entitled  to maternity  benefits  of 12 
weeks, out of which not more than six weeks shall precede the date of delivery  
• A commissioning  mother (our employee), who wishes to get embryo implanted in another woman; and a woman 
(our employee)  who  legally  adopts a child  up  to the  age of  three months, will   be considered  as the ‘insured 
woman’; and shall  be entitled to maternity  benefits of  12 weeks from the date of  handing over of the child  after 
birth to the commissioning  mother, and from the date of such adoption, as the case may be  
• If  an employee resigns from  employment during  Maternity  Leave without  resuming  duty, the benefit  shall be 
extended only up to the last day of the employment with  the Company. 
• The woman  employee can proceed on maternity leave up to  a maximum of  8 weeks but compulsorily   1 week 
before the delivery  date.  The woman  employee must compulsorily   avail  8 weeks of  maternity  leave after  the 
delivery date.  
• The  maximum leaves permitted  under maternity  are 06 months. Any  extension/exception on  the policy  to be 
approved by  Head  of  HR.  Extension of   maternity  leave beyond  6  months is  applicable  only  for  confirmed 
employees with a minimum  service of 6 months. 
• Employee will   not be eligible for  PL credit during  Maternity  leave.  
• For the purpose of Maternity or Miscarriage / Medical termination  of Pregnancy intervening weekends / holidays 
will  be calculated as leave days.  
• In  case of miscarriage or medical termination of  pregnancy for any reason, the number of days of leave will  be 
limited  to 6  weeks (42  continuous days) from  the  date of such occurrence. Application   for  ML  of  this  nature 
should be supported with a proper medical certificate.  
• Employees desirous of availing  ML  have to fill  up maternity application  from &  Form A available  with HR  BP 
and submit the same along with doctors certificates, stating expected date of delivery.  
• HR  will  validate  the documents &  apply ESI  or ML  as applicable in  HR System on  behalf of  employee. The 
same will be auto approved.  
• Proof of  birth certificate  or Discharge summary copy has to be submitted post-delivery.  
 
Note: To avail  maternity benefits under ESIC,  the employee should have contributed  to ESI for  not less than 84 
days in immediate proceeding two consecutive periods (April  to Sept & Oct to March)  prior to actual or expected 
date of delivery. 
 
Paternity  Leave  
 
All  confirmed  male employees are eligible  for Paternity  Leave of 5 working   days for the birth  or adoption  of a 
child.  
• Employees desirous of availing  this benefit must provide  Birth  certificate or discharge summary of the child  to 
respective HR.  
• Discharge summary is entertained only in absence of birth certificate  & same should have name of mother, date 
of birth of  child &  authorised seal & sign of  the Registered Medical Practitioner.  
•  Paternity Leave  will   be credited  and the same has to  be applied  in  HR  System &  sanctioned  by reporting 
authority before proceeding on leave.  
• This leave must be taken within  60 days from the date of birth  of the child  or adoption and all five  days should 
be availed at one stretch.  
• This leave is not eligible  for  encashment or accumulation.  
• This leave will  be available twice  during the tenure of service.  
• Employees having two  children will  not be entitled  to this benefit. 
 
Leave on Transfer   (Business Purposes)  
 
• In  case of business transfer or relocation, an employee can avail of travel leave up to a maximum of 3  working 
days, excluding the number of days of travel.  

For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

5
• Relocation leave will  be credited by HR  based on approval from HOD  
• Employee has to apply &  get the same approved in HR system  
• This must be availed within  03 Months  of relocation.  
• This leave is subject to discretion  of management.  
 
Compensatory  Off  
 
• Compensatory off  is permitted to employees who are authorized to work on a holiday or  on a weekly off  by the 
respective department heads/Manager’s for exigencies of work.  
• An employee can also avail comp off  first and work on a later date subject to business requirement based on the 
approval of the HOD.  
• Compensatory off  to be availed within   90 days of such extra work  and accumulation of  Compensatory off for 
more than 90 days is not permitted i.e. the same will get lapsed.  
• Compensatory Off  has to be applied and approve only through HR System.  
• Employees till  Band  (Grade), is eligible  for  Compensatory off  
 
Bereavement  Leave (BL)  
 
The Bereavement Leave Policy establishes uniform guidelines for providing paid time off  to employees to be with 
their families in times of personal loss or grieving. Bereavement leave is granted for making funeral arrangements, 
attending the funeral and burial, paying  respects to the family, dealing  with the deceased’s possessions and will, 
and any ancillary matters that employees must address when a loved one / immediate family member dies. 
 
Eligibility:    All  active employees on roll. Guidelines:  
 
• Employees are allowed up to three consecutive days off (excluding weekly off / holidays) from regular scheduled 
duty with  regular  pay in  the event of  the death of  the employee’s  spouse, child, father,  father-in-law,   mother, 
mother-in-law,   son-in-law,  daughter-in-law,   brother,  sister.  To  be  eligible  for   paid  bereavement leave,  the 
employee generally must attend the funeral of  the deceased relative. Classroom trainees will be eligible  for only 
1 day paid off. 
• Employees are allowed  one day off  from  regular scheduled duty with  regular pay  in the event of  death of the 
employee’s, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,  grandparent, grandchild or spouse’s grandparent. To be eligible for paid 
bereavement leave, the employee generally must attend the funeral of the deceased relative.  
(Note: Any relative  other than mentioned may be considered upon evaluation of Management referencing the Pre-
Employment Application  Form  or Employee Family  Status Update Form submitted to the HR Department.)  
• In  case of more than one (1) death at the same time, Bereavement Leave benefit shall be treated as one and not 
extended for each member separately.  
• This benefit  is forfeited if  not availed within  fifteen (15)  days from the date of death. This is noncumulative and 
non-commutable to cash.  
• In case additional time off  required, Bereavement Leave can be clubbed with another type of leave ie CL/PL  or 
Loss of pay based on the approval from the reporting manager. 
 
Procedure 
 
• An  employee who wishes to take time off due to the death of an immediate family  member should notify  his or 
her supervisor immediately.  
• Bereavement leave will  normally  be granted unless there are unusual business needs or staffing requirements. 
• Employee  may apply for  bereavement leave upon returning to work. However,  prior  notification  and approval 
from the immediate superior must be made.  
• Employee’s  supervisor should notify  the  same to HR team for  attendance monitoring purpose &  crediting  the 
applicable no. of leaves along with the following  details:  nature of the leave, reason/other information supporting 
the said leave, date/s leave to be taken and date reporting back for work.  
• A death certificate / relevant proof from  the hospital must be submitted as support to avail this benefit. However, 
respective head of the department / BU may  approve for crediting  leaves based on the instance of personal visit 
by the supervisors/ HR/colleagues to the hospital / home/ funeral site etc.  
• HR  may  also demand for  other pertinent documents such  as Birth Certificate   or Marriage  Contract to  prove 
affiliation  to  the deceased etc on a case to case basis before crediting bereavement leave. If not applicable, HR 
shall refer to the employee’s personal records for consideration. 



For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

6
• Upon notification  / request by the supervisor, HR team shall also apply leave on behalf of employees during the 
attendance cycle closure dates to avoid LOP after validating the supporting documents. Prior to attendance closure 
dates, employee can apply and get it regularized on returning to work. (HR team to use their discretion and decide 
on whether HR  to apply  leave on employee’s behalf  / employee can apply  on reporting  back depending on the 
dates). 
 
Application   for  leave  
 
Any employee who desires to avail  leave must apply for leave though the HR  System and obtain the approval of 
the immediate superior / approving authority.  
 
General Guidelines  
• Leave is earned by duty and it cannot be claimed as a matter of right.  
• All   leave is subject  to approval by  the immediate  approving authority  /  Head of  the Department. Any  leave, 
including Loss of Pay leave, without proper authorization will  be treated as unauthorized absence and will be dealt 
with accordingly.  
• For the purpose of computing  leave, the year will be reckoned from  1st January to 31st December each year.  
• Any   communication  to an employee not  on duty  will   be sent to his/her  last known  address available on the 
Company’s records. It will  be the responsibility  of the employee to inform  the Company of any change in his/her 
residential address.  
• The company reserves its right to refuse, postpone, revoke or curtail leave as exigencies of the company’s work 
may require.  
• Employees are not eligible  for  leave credit  if they  were on continuous 25 days leave (CL/SL/PL/LOP   or  ML) 
during the previous month (26th to 25th payroll cycle). 















































For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

