
 
 
 
   
                                                                COMPENSATION     POLICY 
                                                                                          
                                                         Document Reference Number – HR-003 
                                                                                          
   
  All  Rights Reserved. This document is a property of Ideassion Technology Solutions. No part of this document 
  may be copied or  reproduced in any form  or by  any means, electronic, mechanical or otherwise  without  the 
  prior written  permission of Ideassion Technology  Solutions. 
   
                                                                                                                                                  

       Document ID                    Owner               Approved  by, Date         Last Modified                 Total Pages 

             HR  – 
      Compensation                     HR                          1-Aug-22                                                                4 
            Policy 
 
Modification  History 
 

      Version                    Date                     Primary   Author                                      Description 

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

                                                                                                         

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

2
                                                                 COMPENSATION     POLICY 
 
Purpose 
 
Ideassion believes in paying a fair compensation to all employees on the rolls of the company commensurate with 
their qualification,  experience and specialized  skills. It  will  also  strive to maintain  parity  among the employees 
having  the same  skill  sets,  qualification,   potential,  and  experience while   duly  recognizing   /  demonstrating 
exceptional performance in a befitting  manner.  
 
The management believes in having a transparent policy & a simple procedure to administer the above policy.  
 
With the above objectives the breakup of the compensation has been made keeping in mind the standard of living 
expected by the professionals, their  social  security needs, health benefit  needs and their educational /  learning 
needs. 
 
Applicability  
 
The compensation policy is applicable to  all employees.  
 
Compensation  Applicability    and  Its Break  Up 
 
Break-up of  Compensation is divided  into sub components, like  Basic Pay, Flexible  Benefit  Plan and Statutory 
Bonus.  
1) Basic Pay  
2) House Rent Allowance  
3) Flexible Benefit  Plan 
              a) Food Voucher/Card  
              b) Vehicle  Maintenance and Driver Charges  
              c) Special Allowance  
4) Monthly  Statutory Bonus  
 
1. BASIC  PAY  
 
Objective  
Basic Pay is  paid  as a significant  component  of  the overall  compensation  which  has a direct  bearing  on the 
employee’s retirement benefits.  
 
Applicability  
Basic Pay is applicable to all employees.  
 
Administrative    Guidelines  
• Basic pay  is the minimum   wages as per State slab OR approximately  50%  of the  CTC whichever  is high.  It 
usually depends on the terms agreed, while designing the compensation package.  
• This is taken as a base for the calculations of Provident Fund, Gratuity, leave encashment etc.  
• Basic pay is payable on a monthly basis.  
• Basic pay  is paid to  the number of  days one is present during  a calendar month subject  to credits availed  on 
account of eligible leaves.  
• This is paid for  all paid leaves / holidays / weekly  offs.  
 
Taxability:   Basic Pay is subject to income tax as per the tax laws.  
 
2. HOUSE  RENT  ALLOWANCE  
 
Objective  
House Rent Allowance is paid  so that the accommodation need of an employee is taken care of in accordance to 
their grades/positions.  
 
Applicability  
This allowance is applicable to all  employees depending on the salary.  
 


For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

3
Administrative    Guidelines  
• HRA exemption  amount will  be as per employee’s declaration. (Rent declared by employee)  
• The maximum tax exemption limit  allowed  for HRA  is, 40% of Basic pay in  Non-Metros and 50% of Basic pay 
in Metros.  
• HRA is  Payable on a monthly basis.  
• This is paid for  all paid leaves / holidays / weekly  offs.  
 
Taxability:   This  will  be taxable in employee’s hands as per the prevailing Income-tax laws. 
 
3. FLEXIBLE    BENEFIT   PLAN  
 
(A) FOOD  VOUCHER    / CARD  
 
Objective  
To provide employees with  the facility  of availing  food items.  
 
Applicability  
This benefit is applicable to  all employees in all bands for whom  the annual CTC is above Rs.3,00,000.  
 
Administrative    Guidelines  
Employee may declare Rs 3500 or Rs.2000 per month towards food voucher/card. Any service charge applicable 
will  be paid by the company.  
 
Coupons / Food Card shall be provided to employees before 7th of every month after the payroll.  
 
Taxability:   This  benefit is Tax Free. 
 
(B) VEHICLE    MAINTENANCE     &  DRIVER’S    SALARY   REIMBURSEMENT  
 
Objective  
To ensure comfort of travel for  employees for official  and personal use.  
 
Applicability  
This is applicable to all  employees who fall under the grade of and above. 
 
Administrative  Guidelines  
• Employees should submit actual bills  along with claim  form to HR  to avail this benefit  on a monthly basis.  
• Employees eligible for  this scheme but does not wish to avail this option  can opt for Conveyance allowance.  
• Employee to give a self-declaration along  with FBP stating the Car Type, Model  &  Engine CC  
• Any  unclaimed amount at the end of  the year will  be paid to the employee  as a Taxable Amount. The amount 
allocated will  vary for  different grades as mentioned below: 
 
                 Car  Type                      Fuel &  Vehicle  Maintenance   (per month)         Driver   Salary (per  month) 
   CC of Engine below  1.6 Ltr                                    Rs.1800                                                     Rs.900 

   CC of Engine above 1.6 Ltr                                     Rs.2400                                                    Rs.900 
 
Taxability:   The amount will  not  be taxable in the hands of the employee. 
 
(C) SPECIAL   ALLOWANCE  
 
Objective  
Special Allowance  is part of  your overall  compensation as determined by the company after considering  all the 
benefits provided in this policy  document.  
 
Applicability  
This allowance is applicable to all  employees. 
 
Administrative    Guidelines  
This amount will  be taxed as per norms and given to the employee, for the number of days worked per month.  


For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

4
 
Taxability:   This  will  be taxable in employee’s hands as per the prevailing Income-tax laws.  
 
4. MONTHLY  STATUTORY BONUS  
 
Applicability  
Will  be paid  to  all employees   as detailed   in  The Payment   of  Bonus  Act.  
 
Taxability:   This will  be  taxable  in  employee’s   hands  as per  the  prevailing   Income-tax   laws.  
 

































































For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions – No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions. 
 

