 

SALARY ADVANCE POLICY

Document Reference Number — HR-005

 

All Rights Reserved. This document is a property of Ideassion Technology Solutions. No part of this document
may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the
prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Document ID Owner Approved by, Date Last Modified Total Pages
HR — Salary
Advance Policy HR 1-Aug-22 |
Modification History
Version Date Primary Author Description

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions — No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions.
SALARY ADVANCE POLICY

Eligibility Guidelines

1.

»

Employees who have completed one year of employment with Ideassion Technology Solutions are
eligible for a salary advance.

This policy is applicable only for all employees who are confirmed in the rolls of the organization.

The advance amount is limited to employee’s two months’ Net Take Home Pay.

The employee who needs an advance need to first approach his reporting manager with a written request
or through email. The reporting manager will assess the reason of such request and in turn will
recommend the case based on the experience and eligibility of the candidate to the concerned Department
Head.

Head of the Department will then formally send the request with his recommendation to Finance and
HR.

Finance will discuss the financial impact and recovery methods with HR and Head of Department before
approving the salary advance.

Upon approval, finance department will credit the advance to the employee’s bank account.

Payroll will keep track of the recovery schedule and will process the advance/deduction in the monthly
payroll.

Terms and Conditions

This is a facility extended to the Employees but not a privilege.

Management reserves the right to decline requests for advances without any reasoning.

Advances will be considered for medical emergencies and other immediate requirements that will be
validated by the reporting manager of the employee.

Employees are eligible for only one salary advance at any given point of time.

Interest free recovery will be in equated monthly installments and will commence immediately from the
following month’s salary.

Salary advance needs to be repaid within 10 equated monthly installments.

If the Employee leaves the organization before clearing the repayment of salary advance, the pending
recoverable amount will be adjusted in the full and final settlement.

Exceptions

Any exception to this policy will be handled on a case-to-case basis by HR and will be approved by CEO.

For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions — No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions.
