 

PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARRASSMENT AT WORKPLACE

 

Document Reference Number — HR-006

 

All Rights Reserved. This document is a property of Ideassion Technology Solutions. No part of this document
may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the
prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Document ID Owner Approved by, Date Last Modified Total Pages
HR — POSH HR 1-Aug-22 8
Modification History
Version Date Primary Author Description

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARRASSMENT AT WORKPLACE

Ideassion Technology Solutions herein referred as company is committed in creating an atmosphere in which all
Ideassion members can work together in an atmosphere free from sexual harassment. On 13" August 1997, the
Supreme Court in its Judgment in the case of Visakha Vs. State of Rajasthan issued certain guidelines pertaining
to sexual harassment. Pursuant to these guidelines respective State governments have issued a circular calling
upon the Organizations to implement these guidelines. Towards this implementation the present policy has been
formulated.

It shall be binding not only on all the Ideassion Technology Solutions employees but also on third party harassment
on Company premises. Sexual harassment as generally understood is of two kinds: Hostile environment and quid
pro quo. Hostile work environment includes pornography in public places, foul language, etc. This may not be
directed at any woman employee in particular, but the effect on the women is one of discomfort. Second, quid pro
quo 1.e. "in exchange" for favours such as promotions, employment perks, etc.

1. SHORT TITLE, EXTENT AND COMMENCEMENT

This Policy will be called the Policy concerning sexual harassment in Ideassion Technology Solutions. It extends
to all the Ideassion Technology Solutions Members.

This policy will come into effect immediately on the date of issuance of this circular.
2. DEFINITIONS

"Sexual Harassment", as is provided in the Supreme Court Judgment, includes any unwelcome sexually
determined behaviour, direct or by implication, and includes physical contact and advances, a demand or request
for sexual favours, sexually coloured remarks, showing pornography, any other unwelcome physical, verbal or
non verbal conduct of a sexual nature.

Explanation: "Sexual Harassment" shall include, but will not be confined to the following:
a) When submission to unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours, and verbal or physical
conduct of a sexual nature are made, either explicitly or implicitly, a term or condition of instruction,
employment, participation or evaluation of a person’s engagement in company activity.

b) When unwelcome sexual advances and verbal, non-verbal, or physical conduct such as loaded comments,
remarks or jokes, letters, phone calls or e- mail, gestures, showing of pornography, lurid stares, physical
contact or molestation, stalking, sounds or display of a derogatory nature have the purpose or effect of
interfering with an individual’s performance or of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive company
environment;

c) When any form of sexual assault is committed where a person uses, the body or any part of it or any
object as an extension of the body in relation to another person without the latter’s consent or against
that person’s will, and

d) When any such conduct as defined in (1) and (11) above is committed by a third party or outsider in relation
to a member of the company’s community, or vice versa on the premises of the company.

1. "Employee" means any Ideassion Technology Solutions Employees to which this policy is

applicable including any temporary, part time, honorary, employee by whatever name called and

would include employees employed on a casual or project basis and also employed through a

contractor.

il. "Ideassion Technology Solutions” Members includes any person who is in the roles of the company
including the trainees.

lil. "Premise" shall mean and include all the offices of Ideassion Technology Solutions.

iv. "Company" means Ideassion Technology Solutions.

Vv. "Management" means the managing or governing body by whatever name called, registered under

the Company’s Act, 1956, under whose management the company is functioning.
Vi. "Management Council" means all the heads of departments / functions.
3. APPLICATION OF THE POLICY
The provisions of this Policy will apply to all the employees of Ideassion Technology Solutions.
Scope of the policy

This Policy will be applicable to all allegations of sexual harassment by an Ideassion Technology Solutions
Member against an Ideassion Technology Solutions Member, by an employee against another employee, in either
case, irrespective of whether sexual harassment is alleged to have taken place within or outside the company
premises.

4. CONSTITUTION OF THE COMPANY CELL TO PREVENT AND DEAL WITH SEXUAL
HARASSMENT

The Company Cell shall consist of
a) Head of the company as the Ex Officio Chairperson;
b) Head of the Human Resource Department of the company;
c) 5 employees of the company, at least three of whom will be women, to be nominated by the Head of the
company and Head of the Human Resource department;
d) All Functional Heads
e) A member from NGO to be nominated by the company Cell.

Preventive Steps

Must be undertaken by employers or other responsible authorities in public or private sectors as follows:

a) Express prohibition of sexual harassment should be notified and circulated.

b) Prohibition of sexual harassment should be included in the rules and regulations of government and
public sector bodies.

c) Private employers should include prohibition of sexual harassment in the standing orders under the
Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 / Company’s Code of Conduct.

d) Appropriate work conditions should be provided for work, leisure, health, and hygiene to further ensure
that there is no hostile environment towards women at workplaces and no woman employee should have
reasonable grounds to believe that she is disadvantaged in connection with her employment.

5. DISQUALIFICATION OF CHAIRPERSON AND MEMBERS

A person shall be disqualified for being appointed, elected, nominated or designated as, or for being continued as
a member of the company cell if there is any complaint concerning sexual harassment pending against him or if
he is found guilty of sexual harassment.

6. VACANCY OF A MEMBER OWING TO ABSENCE WITHOUT PERMISSION

 

If a member elected or nominated or designated to the company cell remains absent without permission of the
company cell from three consecutive meetings, her/ his office shall thereupon become vacant.

7, RESIGNATION OF MEMBER

A member of the company cell not being a member ex officio may resign his/ her office at any time by tendering
his/ her resignation in writing to the Ex Officio Chairperson, and such person shall be deemed to have vacated
his/ her office as soon as the Chairperson has received the resignation.

8. MEETINGS OF THE COMPANY CELL

a) The company cell shall meet at least once every year.

b) No such meetings shall be called within holidays or vacations or outside regular company hours.

c) The quorum for any meeting of the company cell will be 50% of its members. If the quorum is not present
at any meeting it shall be adjourned for not more than 7 working days and if at the subsequent meeting a
quorum is still not present the meeting shall proceed with those who are present and the proceedings of
such a meeting will not be challenged on the ground of absence of quorum.
9. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMPANY CELL

The powers and duties of the company cell shall be as follows, namely:
a) To ensure implementation of this Policy in the company;
b) To ensure and supervise the proper constitution and functioning of the Complaints Committees;
c) To act as the Appellate Body in respect of certain complaints as provided subsequently in this policy.

10. CONSTITUTION OF THE COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE

a) The Complaints Committee shall consist of:
1. Head of Human Resource department of the Company;
li. 5 employees of the company, at least three of whom should be woman;

b) Atleast 50% of the members of the Complaints Committee shall be women;

c) The term of office of the committee shall be 3 years;

d) The quorum for any meeting of the Complaints Committee will be 50% of its members. If the quorum is
not present at any meeting it shall be adjourned for not more than 7 working days and if at the subsequent
meeting a quorum is still not present the meeting shall proceed with those who are present and the
proceedings of such a meeting will not be challenged on the ground of absence of quorum;

e) The names of persons who are on the Committee, from time to time, along with their contact places will
be displayed at all times in a prominent manner on a conspicuous part of the main Notice Board of the
Company.

11. DISQUALIFICATION OF CHAIRPERSON AND MEMBERS

A person shall be disqualified for being appointed, elected, nominated or designated as, or for being continued as
a member of the Complaints Committee if there is any complaint concerning sexual harassment pending against
him or if he is found guilty of sexual harassment.

12. VACANCY OF A MEMBER OWING TO ABSENCE WITHOUT PERMISSION

If a member elected or nominated or designated to the Complaints Committee remains absent without permission
of the Committee from three consecutive meetings, her/ his office shall thereupon become vacant.

13. RESIGNATION OF MEMBER

A member of the Complaints Committee not being a member ex officio may resign his/ her office at any time by
tendering his/ her resignation in writing to the Ex Officio Chairperson, and such person shall be deemed to have
vacated his/ her office as soon as the Chairperson has received the resignation.

14. MEETINGS OF THE COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE

a) Apart from meetings of the Complaints Committee on receipt of complaint, the Complaints Committee
shall meet at least twice every year and three months shall not intervene between two successive
meetings.

b) The bi annual meetings as provided in sub clause (i) above shall not be called within holidays or vacations
or outside regular company hours.

c) The Chairperson of the Complaints Committee may at any time, and shall upon the written request of
not less than one third of the total number of members of the Complaints Committee call a special
meeting of the Complaints Committee on a date not later than 15 days after the receipt of such request
by the Chairperson.

15. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE

The powers and duties of the Complaints Committee shall be as follows, namely:
a) to implement the present policy concerning sexual harassment in Ideassion Technology Solutions;
b) to process individual grievances concerning sexual harassment and to take suitable action in the manner
and mode more particularly provided hereafter
c) to exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be conferred or imposed on it by or
under this Policy;
d) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary to carry out the objects of this Policy.
16. PUNISHMENT FOR SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Any employee found guilty of sexual harassment shall be liable to be punished.
17. PENALTIES

An employee guilty of sexual harassment shall be liable for any of the following penalties:
a) Warning, reprimand or censure;
b) Withholding of an increment for a period not exceeding one year;
c) Reduction in rank;
d) Termination of service

In addition to these penalties the employee concerned may also be fined up to Rs. 5,000/-, which amount the
Management for achieving the aims and objectives of this policy will use.

Provided however, that in addition to all these penalties the employee can also be required to give a written
apology to the victim and upon his failure to do so his punishment can be enhanced.

18. CLASSIFICATION OF PENALTIES
The penalties shall be classified as minor and major penalties as under:

(A) Minor penalties-
a) reprimand,
b) warning,
c) censure,
d) withholding of an increment not exceeding one year
e) suspension from the Organization for a period up to one month.

(B) Major penalties-
a) Withholding of increment for more than 1 year;
b) Reduction in rank;
c) Termination of service

In case a minor penalty has been imposed on the accused on an earlier occasion, on a second conviction, he
shall be imposed with a major penalty irrespective of the gravity of the second offence.

19. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

a) Any woman employee will have a right to lodge a complaint concerning sexual harassment against a
male employee or an outsider with any of the members of the Complaints Committee.

b) Such a complaint may be oral or in writing.

c) Ifthe Complaint is oral, the committee member to whom the complaint is made shall reduce the same in
writing in detail.

d) The Complainant will be afforded full confidentiality at this stage.

e) Immediately upon receipt of the Complaint, and within not more than 2 working days, the member of
the Committee to whom the Complaint is made shall communicate the same to the Chairperson of the
Complaints Committee. However, if the Complainant so desires, her name shall be kept confidential and
will not be divulged even to the Complaints Committee.

f) Within a period of 5 working days from the date of such communication, the Chairperson shall convene
a meeting of the Complaints Committee.

g) At this meeting, the Complaints Committee shall nominate three persons from amongst themselves
(known as the Enquiry Committee) for proceeding with the Complaint.

h) Atleast two of these persons so nominated will be women.

1) No person against whom a Complaint is made shall be part of the Enquiry Committee.

20. PROCEDURE FOR INITIATING ACTION

 

a) Within 5 working days of the Enquiry Committee being set up, the said Committee will convene a
meeting of which advance intimation will be given to the Complainant.
b) Atthis meeting, the Complainant will be entitled to remain present personally or through a representative.

c) At the first meeting of the Enquiry Committee, the Complainant or her representative shall be heard and
the Enquiry Committee shall decide whether the Complaint requires to be proceeded with. The
Complaint will be dropped only if the Complaint on the face of it, does not disclose an offence of sexual
harassment.

d) Incase the Enquiry Committee decides to proceed with the Complaint, the wishes of the Complainant
concerning the issue shall be taken into account and if the Complainant so wishes the accused will be
called to a meeting of the Enquiry Committee, heard and if necessary, warned about his behavior and the
matter concluded with a recording to that effect made in the Complaints Register of the Complaints
Committee.

e) Ifthe Complainant however, wishes to proceed ahead with the Complaint beyond a mere warning to the
accused, the same will be proceed with in the manner prescribed subsequently in this policy.

21. PROCEDURE FOR IMPOSING MINOR PUNISHMENT

 

In case the Enquiry Committee decides to impose a minor punishment, the accused shall be given in writing an
opportunity to explain within one week why he should not be for good and sufficient reasons be punished for the
act of sexual harassment on his part. The nature and quantum of punishment if any to be imposed on him shall be
decided after considering the explanation, if any given by the accused.

22. PROCEDURE FOR IMPOSING MAJOR PUNISHMENT

If an accused is alleged to be guilty of sexual harassment and if there is reason to believe that in the event of the
guilt being proved against him, he is liable for imposition of any major penalty the Enquiry Committee shall, first
decide whether to place the accused employee under suspension. If the accused employee is to be placed under
suspension the provisions of suspension and subsistence allowance as prescribed under the Statutes for other
misconduct will apply.

a) Ifa person is charged with physical molestation or rape on the company premise, he shall be immediately
placed under suspension pending the completion of the investigation and enquiry. In all other cases, the
Enquiry Committee shall within 3 days decide whether the charged person shall be placed under
suspension or not and in either event it shall communicate its decision and the reasons for the decision
to the Management that shall then implement the decision forthwith.

b) Within 3 days of the fist meeting of the Enquiry Committee, it shall communicate to the accused by hand
delivery duly acknowledged or by registered post acknowledgement due the allegations and demand
from him a written explanation within 7 days from the date of receipt of the statement of allegations.

c) IfEnquiry Committee finds the explanation of the accused not satisfactory or if no explanation is given
by the accused, the Enquiry Committee will decide to hold an enquiry against the accused.

d) The Convener of the Enquiry Committee will be either the Head of the company or Head of Human
Resource department.

e) The meetings of the Enquiry Committee will be held during the office hours in the company premises
but not during holidays.

23. PROCEDURE FOR ENQUIRY

The Enquiry Committee shall prepare a charge sheet containing specific charges and shall hand over the same

together with the statement of allegation and the explanation of the accused to the Complainants well as to the

accused by hand delivery duly acknowledged or by registered post acknowledgement due, within 3 days of the
Enquiry Committee having decided to conduct the enquiry

a) Within 10 days after the accused receives the copies of the charge sheet and the statement of allegations:

1. If accused desires to tender any written explanation to the charge-sheet, he shall submit the same

to the convener of the Enquiry Committee in person or send it to her by registered post

acknowledgement due;

li. If the Complainant or the accused desire to examine any witnesses they shall communicate in
writing to the Convener the names of witnesses whom they propose to so examine;
ili. If the Complainant desires to tender any documents by way of evidence before the Enquiry

Committee, it shall supply true copies of such documents to the accused. Similarly if the accused
desires to tender any documents in evidence before the Enquiry Committee he shall supply true
copies of such documents to the complainant.
b)

2)
d)

g)

h)

i)

D

k)

))

Within 3 days after the expiry of period of 10 days specified in clause (a), the Enquiry Committee shall
meet to proceed with the enquiry and give 7 days notice by hand delivery duly acknowledged or by
registered post acknowledgement due to the Complainant and the accused to appear for producing
evidence, examining witnesses, etc., if any. The Enquiry Committee shall see that every reasonable
opportunity is extended to the Complainant and to the accused, for putting forward and defending their
case.

The Complainant shall have the right to lead evidence and the right to cross examine witnesses examined
on behalf of the employee.

The accused shall have the right to be heard in person and lead evidence. He shall also have the nght to
cross-examine witnesses examined on behalf of the Complainant.

Sufficient opportunities shall be given to examine all witnesses notified by both the parties.

All the proceedings of the Enquiry Committee will be recorded and both the parties in token of
authenticity thereof shall endorse the same together with the statement of witnesses. The Convener shall
endorse the refusal to endorse the same by either party.

The enquiry shall ordinarily be completed within a period of 90 days from the date on which the Show
Cause Notice is given to the accused.

The Complainant and the accused will be responsible to see those nominees and the witnesses if any are
present during the enquiry. However, if the Enquiry Committee is convinced about the absence of either
of the parties to the disputes or any of the members of the Enquiry Committee on any valid ground the
Enquiry Committee shall adjourn that particular meeting of the Committee. The meeting so adjourned
shall be conducted even in the absence of the person concerned if he or she fails to remain present for
the said adjourned meeting.

The Convener of the Enquiry Committee shall forward to the Complainant and the accused as the case
may be a summary of the proceedings and copies of statements of witnesses, if any, by hand delivery
duly acknowledged, or by registered post acknowledgement due, within four days of the completion of
the above steps and allow them a time of seven days to offer further explanation, if any.

The Complainant or the accused, as the case may be shall submit their further explanation to the
Convener of the Enquiry Committee within a period of seven days from the date of receipt of the
summary of proceedings etc., either personally or by registered post acknowledgement due.

On receipt of such further explanation or if no such further explanation is offered within the aforesaid
time, the Enquiry Committee shall complete the enquiry and communicate its findings on the charges
against the accused and its decision on the basis of its finding to the Management for specific action to
be taken against the accused within 10 days after the date fixed for receipt of further explanation. It shall
also forward a copy of the same by hand delivery duly acknowledged or by registered post
acknowledgement due to the Complainant and to the accused. A copy of the findings shall also be
forwarded to the Complaints Committee. The findings of the Enquiry Committee shall be binding on the
Complaints Committee. Thereafter the decision of the Enquiry Committee shall be implemented by the
Management which shall issue necessary orders within 7 days of the date of receipt of decision of the
Enquiry Committee, by hand delivery duly acknowledged or by registered post acknowledgement due.
The Management shall also endorse a copy of its order to the Complainant and to the Complaints
Committee.

The Enquiry Committee may consider as relevant any earlier complaints against the person charged.
However, the Complainant’s past sexual history will not be probed into or enquired during the
proceedings before any of the committees.

24. PROVISIONS FOR APPEAL

a)

b)
2)

d)

In the event of the Complaints Committee or the Enquiry Committee not taking action on a complaint or
in the event of the Complainant being dissatisfied with the action taken by any of the aforesaid
committees the Complainant shall have the right to appeal to the company’s apex body.

A meeting of the company’s apex body shall be convened within 10 days of the receipt of such grievance.
The company’s apex body shall go into the grievance of the Complainant and after hearing the
Complainant, if it satisfied that the matter needs to be further enquired into, it shall take the following
steps:

In the event of there being an incomplete or no enquiry by the Enquiry Committee, the company’s apex
body shall appoint from within itself a three-member Enquiry committee which shall follow the same
procedure, carry out the same functions and have the same powers as the Enquiry Committee;

In the event of the Complainant being dissatisfied by the decision of the Enquiry Committee after a
concluded enquiry, the Enquiry Committee shall act as an Appellate Body with all powers of the
Appellate Court under the Code of Civil Procedure.
25. PROTECTION AGAINST VICTIMISATION

a)

b)

In the event of the complainant being a Subordinate and the accused being the Boss, during the pendency
of the investigation and enquiry and even after such an enquiry if the Boss is found to be guilty, the
accused will not act as an appraiser for evaluating the performance of the Subordinate.

In the event of the Complainant and the accused both being employees, during the pendency of the
investigation and enquiry and even after such an enquiry if the accused is found to be guilty, the accused
shall not write the Confidential Reports of the complainant, if he is otherwise so authorized.

If the Accused is an outsider, during the pendency of the investigation and enquiry and even thereafter,
if he is found to be guilty, the accused shall not be allowed to enter the company premises except for the
purpose of attending the present enquiry.

26. OBLIGATION OF THE MANAGEMENT

Management of the Company shall provide all necessary assistance for the purpose of ensuring full, effective and
speedy implementation of this policy. It shall be bound by the decisions of the various committees as set out in
this scheme and shall implement such decisions in an expeditious manner.

27. THIRD PARTY HARASSEMENT

In case of third-party sexual harassment the Company Complaints Committee will actively assist and provide all
its resources to the Complainant in pursuing the complaint and ensure her safety at least in the Company premises.

28. SAVINGS
a) The provisions of this Policy shall apply notwithstanding any contrary Statute, law, Circular or
Ordinance.
b) The proceedings under this policy shall not be stalled or postponed merely because the complainant is
proceeding against the accused under any other provision of civil or criminal law.
c) The provisions of this Policy shall not restrict the powers of the Management or the Complainant to

proceed against the alleged offender for any other misconduct or pursue the criminal or civil remedies.
