SEPARATION POLICY

Document Reference Number — HR-007

All Rights Reserved. This document is a property of Ideassion Technology Solutions. No part of this document
may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the
prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions.

Document ID Owner Approved by, Date Last Modified Total Pages
HR — Separation HR 1-Aug-22 3
Policy
Modification History
Version Date Primary Author Description

For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions — No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions.
SEPARATION POLICY

Purpose — To communicate clearly the process to be followed by employee who wishes to separate/resign from
his/her job.

To ensure consistent handling and documentation of employee separation.
Provide an opportunity to separating employees to provide feedback pertaining to their work experiences
and the factors that contributed to their exit.

Applicability — This policy shall be applicable for all employees of Ideassion.

Types of Separation
Resignation: Voluntary separation of employee by raising separation request in HR System

Termination: Involuntary separation initiated by the Company for various reasons like misconduct, theft,
violation of policies, PIP negative closure etc

Voluntary abandonment of service (FLA/VAS): Where an employee remains absent from work without prior
permission.

Retirement: Separation on the employee completing 58 years of age. The date of retirement shall be the last
working day of the month in which the employee completes 58 years of age.

SEPARATION POLICY
Resignation

Employee has to raise separation request in HR System

Employee will have one-one retention meeting Reporting/functional manager & HR

Separation needs to be authorised/approved by the 2nd level manager

Employee has to serve the notice period as applicable in line with his current grade or required to pay
the amount due in lieu of such notice period.

Notice period for all employees during probation period will be 30 days

Employee has to take up exit interview in as per the schedule given by HR

Employee has an option to adjust maximum of 2weeks notice (including Saturday / Sunday / holiday)
against his/her PL balance, if any.

The date of relieving shall be the last day for which the employee will be paid.

Employee has an option to withdraw resignation till his LWD,

Acceptance of an employee’s request for withdrawal of resignation shall be at the sole discretion of the
Dept / Functional Head.

On last working day , HR will initiate the clearance checklist for resigned employee

The check list has to be first authorised by employees managers on completion of tasks assigned, KT etc.
Employee has to handover company property like access card, laptop, data card or any other company
property to respective stake holders for clearance completion on LWD.

If an employee resigns while on leave, he/she shall be required to serve notice period to be eligible for
relieving letter.

If employee resigns post Maternity leave, she has an option to get relieving letter after clearing any dues
& notice pay.

Misconduct or failure to report for duty while serving notice period may result in termination of service.
Relieving letter will be issued only once the employee has successfully completed the notice period as
per the prevailing policy and completing the exit & clearance formalities.

The right to decide whether to collect basic salary in lieu of employee serving notice period is solely
based on the discretion of management.

However, due to any circumstances, if employees choose not to serve notice period after submitting
resignation, company reserves the right to issue relieving letter.

In exceptional cases, based on employee request, HOD may approve early relieving. However, the short
notice recovery clause will be applicable in line with appointment terms & relieving letter will be issued
only post settling the dues. Any exceptions to this would need approval from Head of HR.

No compensation or payment in lieu of Notice Pay shall be payable in the case of termination from
service.

HR will Issue relieving letter to the employee on last working day if employee completes clearance
formalities by 6pm, else on next working day

For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions — No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions.
Submitting resignation letter and not completing exit formalities amount to absconding and company
will treat such employee as Absconder.

Final Settlement for such employees will be in line with Voluntarily Abandonment of Service.

Those employees who voluntarily abandoned their services are not eligible for relieving letter from the
company in future.

Voluntary abandonment of service (FLA/VAS)

Reporting managers has to inform HR, if any team member is on unauthorised or uninformed absence
for more than 3 working days.

If an employee is not reporting to work for 7 continuous working days without prior intimation or leave
application & not responding to calls from TL, respective TL has to initiate FLA request to the HR.

On receipt of intimation from Reporting manager, HR will try to contact employee and find out reasons
for absenteeism.

Leave may or may not be granted based on reason given by the employee & on furnishing of request
letter and approval from Manager & HR.

HR will initiate first Letter of Absence if there is no response from the absconding employee.

FLA will be initiated by HR and will be sent via registered post to the employees permanent address
provided in HR System.

HR will also intimate admin, finance, HRMIS, Compliance & IT teams for deactivating employees log
in & access credentials.

If the employee reports back after FLA, explanation is collected and based on the same employee is
allowed to resume duty.

If there is no response from the employee for next 7 days, on day 15, Voluntary Abandonment of Services
or VAS letter will be sent to employees permanent address updated in HR System.

On initiation of VAS, HR will intimate Admin, IT, Compliance, HRMIS & TL to permanently deactivate
all log in & access credentials of the employee.

HR will also initiate separation formalities of the employee in HR System.

Employees F&F also will be processed in line with policy.

Employee will not be allowed to continue working after VAS has been initiated.

Those employees who voluntarily abandoned their services are not eligible for any relieving letter or
rehire in future.

Full and Final Settlement
The full and final settlement payment shall account:

Payment due as salary till last working day.

Payment due on account of encashment of PL balance

Recovery for -Statutory dues, Company dues, Loans & Advances, if any.

Training Cost &Short notice Recovery — wherever applicable.

Full and final settlement amount will be credited to the employee’s salary account. Under no
circumstances, F&F settlement will be paid in cash.

In the normal course, the full and final settlement will be processed within 30 working days of the
employee completing the exit formalities.

In exceptional cases, based on employee request, early relieving can be approved by HOD However, the short
notice recovery clause will be applicable in line with appointment terms & relieving letter will be issued only post
settling the dues. Any exceptions to this would need approval from Head of HR.

Early Relieving Approval for employees in all Band/Grade — Respective HOD
Support Function - All Bands — Respective HOD

For Internal Use of Ideassion Technology Solutions — No part of this document may be copied or reproduced in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the prior written permission of Ideassion Technology Solutions.
